Many people have heard of
peripheral arterial disease, or PAD,
but they’re not sure what it means.
Your arteries are a network of blood vessels
that carry oxygen-rich blood
throughout your body.
PAD is a type of atherosclerosis,
which means there is a gradual build up
of fatty material called plaque
inside an artery.
As plaque builds up,
it can reduce the flow of
blood and oxygen in the artery.
The part of the body affected
depends on where the artery is located.
In coronary artery disease,
build up of plaque in the coronary arteries
reduces the flow of blood and oxygen to the heart.
This is the most common cause of heart attacks.
In PAD, plaque builds up in the arteries
that supply blood to your extremities,
especially your legs.
When blood flow is reduced,
the muscle cells in your legs
don’t get the oxygen they need.
This can cause symptoms like pain
and cramping when you walk or exercise,
especially in your calf muscles.
Other symptoms include cold feet and legs,
changes in skin color,
sores that won’t heal,
altered sensation, and loss of hair.
If the narrowing is severe,
it can cause permanent damage to tissue
due to lack of blood and oxygen.
If you have symptoms of PAD,
it’s important to talk to your doctor
before damage occurs.